# Udemy - Modern react with Redux [2019 update]

1. Started at: 25/nov/18
2. Bought at: 11/aug/18
3. Finished at: -
4. Source code: 

# Ref

1. https://reactjs.org/
2. https://www.udemy.com/react-redux/

# Schedule

# 25/nov/18 - Lets Dive in!

## 1,2,3,4. - What is React

1. Library focused on user interaction.
2. React is a library and React-DOM is another.
3. Based on components.
4. Uses npm, for example:  "npm install -g create-react-app".


## 5, 6. Generating a react project

> npm (Runs npm) , install (Command to NPM), -g (Install this package globally, so we can run from anywhere, terminal etc), create-react-app (name of the package we want).

> create project with "create-react-app project-name" or "npx create-react-app project-name".

> Babel, (Javascript updates does not follow browsers supports), babel takes any javascript and convert to javascript ES5, like ES2018 -> ES5. Babel have a huge number of packages, this is the reason of many dependencies in a generated project.

## 7. Exploring a create-react-app project

> src : Folder where we put all the source code we write.

> public :  Folder that stores static files, like images.

> node_modules : Folder that contains all of our project dependencies.

> package.json : Records our project dependencies and configures our project.

> package-lock.json :  Records the exact version of packages that we install.

> README.md : Instructions on how to use this project.


## 8. Starting and Stopping a React App

> stopping the react app -> CTRL+C on terminal that is running the react app.

> starting the react app -> runs npm start on our project directory.


## 9. Javascript Module Systems

1. Erase all files in src.
2. Create a index.js file.
3. Add the follow snippet on the index.js, this sintax means:  

Look inside node_modules a folder called react and import it with React alias.
Look inside node_modules a folder called react-dom and import it with ReactDOM alias.

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
```

> import 'alias' from 'library/foldername' > CommonJS Modules
> require('library/foldername') > ES2015 Modules

1. import -> We want to get code from some other file or dependency.
2. 'React' -> The variable we want to assign this import to.
3. 'from' -> We are about to specify the name of the library or file we are importing from.
4. 'react'-> The name of the dependency or path of the file we want, we are importing.

## 10. Displaying content with functional components.

React component is a function or a class, that produces HTML to show the user .


1. Lets create a component called App what returns a div with the txt 'hi there':

```javascript
const App = () => {
    return <div>Hi there!</div>;
};
```

2. Lets show this component on the screen, using ReactDOM.

```javascript
ReactDOM.render(
    <App/>, document.querySelector('#root')
);
```

3. '<App/>' is the name of the react component, and #root is the div present in public/index.html that we want to put the component.

# 25/nov/18 - Building Content with JSX!

## 11. What is JSX.

First of all, the browser does not understand what .jsx is, so babel comes in, it is a javascript compiler. Its convert any jsx or js newers versions to ES5.

The JSX sintax is create to make easier to wrote the react sintax.

> visit babeljs.io for more details. There you can see what js is generated by your jsx snippet.

Example 1:

Easier way:

```javascript
const App = () => {
    return <div>Hi there!</div>;
};
```
its converted to hard way:

```javascript
"use strict";
var App = function App() {
    return React.createElement(
        "div",
        null,
        "Hi there!"
    );
};
```
Example 2:

Easier way:


```javascript
const App = () => {
    return 
      
      <div>
        <div>Hi there!</div>
          <ul>
            <li> Oi </li>
            <li> Babel </li>
            <li> Under the </li>
            <li> Hood </li>
        </ul>
      </div>;
      
      
};
```
its converted to hard way:

```javascript
"use strict";
var App = function App() {
  return;

  React.createElement(
    "div",
    null,
    React.createElement(
      "div",
      null,
      "Hi there!"
    ),
    React.createElement(
      "ul",
      null,
      React.createElement(
        "li",
        null,
        " Oi "
      ),
      React.createElement(
        "li",
        null,
        " Babel "
      ),
      React.createElement(
        "li",
        null,
        " Under the "
      ),
      React.createElement(
        "li",
        null,
        " Hood "
      )
    )
  );
};
```

## 12. Converting HTML to JSX.

1. HTML != JSX.
2. JSX isn't HTML.
3. We can conver HTML to JSX.


### Steps

> Use codepen.io to write some HTML.

> Create BTN -> new PEN.

> Write some html like https://codepen.io/giuseppemp/pen/zMaoXZ.

```html
<div>
 
  <label for="name" class="label">Enter name</label>
  <input id="name" type="text"/>
  <button style="background-color:blue; color:white">Save</button>
  
</div>
```

4. change return of App component for that html snippet.

5. An error is expected, because HTML isn't JSX.


## 13. Inline Styling with JSX.

### HTML vs JSX

Adding custom style to component have different syntax.

HTML:

```html
  <button style="background-color:blue; color:white">Save</button>
```
JSX:

```jsx
    <button style={{backgroundColor:'blue', color:'white'}}>Save</button>
```

We need to convert properties name from baby-case to camelCase like:  first-name -> firstName, background-color -> backgroundColor and so on.


## 14. Converting Styling to JSX Format

Steps.

1. Change " " to {{ }}.
2. Look for properties with babe-case and convert to camelCase.
3. Change separator ; properties for , .
4. Make sure the values of properties are wrapped by simple quote, '' or double quotes " " .
5. Ex: before: style="background-color:blue; color:white" after: style={{backgroundColor:'blue', color:'white'}} .


## 15. class vs className

Adding a class to an element uses different syntax.

```html
<label for="name" class="label">Enter name</label>
```

This is snippet needs to change to:

```html
<label for="name" className="label">Enter name</label>
```

The reason os this is because the keyword class is a reserved keyword in js, so, this is just to avoid conflicts between css keywords vs js keywords.

> Today have a discution in communitty about create the support of 'class' inside JSX.

## 16. Referencing JS Variables in JSX.

We can reffer js variables or functions in JSX using {} (brackets).

```jsx
const buttonText = 'Click Me!';

function getBtnText(){
    return "Click on Me!";
}


<button style={{backgroundColor:'blue', color:'white'}}>{buttonText}</button>

<button style={{backgroundColor:'blue', color:'white'}}>{getBtnText()}</button>


``` 

## 17. Values JSX Can't Show.


Some values cant be used on JSX. We can use a lot of types on variable, like:

1. Array of Numbers : const buttonText = [10,20];
2. Array of Strings : const buttonText = ['Hi','There'];
3. String : const buttonText = 'Hi there';
4. Numbers : const buttonText = 123;

All examples above works, but exists a particularity that doesn't works, the use of an object:

```jsx
const buttonText = {text:'Click me'};

Error:
<button style={{backgroundColor:'blue', color:'white'}}>{buttonText}</button>

Works:
<button style={{backgroundColor:'blue', color:'white'}}>{buttonText.text}</button>
```

## 18. Finding Forbidden Property Names.

Exists properties that are forbidden, we must keep our browser console open to see warning messages of this kind of errors, for example:

```javascript
Warning: Invalid DOM property `for`. Did you mean `htmlFor`?
    in label (at src/index.js:14)
    in div (at src/index.js:13)
    in App (at src/index.js:23)
```

So, 'for', it is a forbidden HTML property we must fix:

```jsx
    error:
    <label for="name" className="label">{labbelText}</label>
    works:
    <label htmlFor="name" className="label">{labbelText}</label>
```

## 19, 20. Exercise Introduction, Coding Exercise 1: JSX Interpolation.

Solution:

```jsx
<script type="text/babel" data-presets="env,react">
    function getTime() {
        return (new Date()).toLocaleTimeString()
    }

    // Creates a functional component
    const App = () => {
        return (
            <div>
                <div>Current Time:</div>
                <h3>{getTime()} PM</h3>
            </div>
        );
    }

    // Renders the App component into a div with id 'root'
    ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.querySelector('#root'));
</script>

```

# 25/nov/18 - Communicating with Props!


## 21. Three Tenets of Components.

In react there are three tenets we must know, we create a component at time, but a typical react app is a set of component inside each other.

> Component Nesting - A component can be shown inside of another.

> Component Resuability - We want to make components that can be easily reused through out application.

> Component Configuration - We should be able to configure a component when it is created.

## 22. Application Overview.

Lets generated another project by sides 'jsx' project. lets use create-react-app components.

We going to build a comments component.

## 23. Getting Some Free Styling.

Lets create comments box.

1. Erase all files in src folder to make from scratch.

2. We dont want to lose much time with css, so, go to semantic-ui.com to get some default styles.

3. Search for comments.

4. Lets install semantic ui using cdn to be much easier for us. https://cdnjs.com/libraries/semantic-ui

5. Find for semantic-ui.css.min

6. Inside folder public, find for index.html and add the css https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/semantic-ui/2.4.1/semantic.min.css;

```html
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/semantic-ui/2.4.1/semantic.min.css"/>
```

## 24. Naive Component Approach

Create comment block code.

